welcome to mom versus chef a competition
where a professional chef and a mom cook
head-to-head preparing the best dish
possible featuring one secret ingredient
our first competitor today is mom to
Hera Kristy most people even know I have
four kids they meet me and then they're
like oh my gosh you're super fun I'm
like I know right
my grandmother taught me how to cook
there were no recipe she'd be like oh
you know you put it in a telegram i
emanated cuz you know i'm competing
against a top chef but you know what i'm
proposing California babies nothing
intimidates us winning mom versus chef
will make me the best non trained mom
chef in the world
and competing against her is
professional chef Dakota Weiss
I've been cooking professionally for 18
years and I'm the chef partner at
Estrela restaurant and chef partner at
sweet can poki in San Marco growing up
my mom really inspired me to become the
chef that I am kind of forced us to eat
organic and vegetables and everything
out of the garden it's looking I guess
the mom who actually puts four children
daily is a little nerve-racking I have
to kind of dig deep into my inner child
winning this competition would be great
just love for my niece and nephew to
watch it and be really excited for aunt
Koda
welcome to Hara Jeff Weiss today you're
gonna be competing against each other
trying to create the tastiest dish
possible featuring one secret ingredient
in 30 minutes or less your dishes will
be judged by the panel judges before you
my name's Elijah I am ten years old and
I want to become a pro baseball player
or soccer player I'm Sydney's Cobra I'm
12 years old and when I grow up I would
love to be an actor and singer your
final judges me I'm Andrew I'm 25 years
old and when I grow up I want to be a
maple syrup farmer I think it's time to
find out what our super ingredient is
wanting to lit up for us sure you guys
know what kind of fish this is different
types I'm messing up no it's it's all
one kind of fish Wow guys this is Sammy
I have a lot of experience cooking the
salmon I've burnt
plenty of pieces but I've learned that
if you broil it and do it quickly you
come out really good and tasty on the
inside when I eat Sammy I really like it
to be a little chewy but not too chewy I
don't like the raw fish taste all right
I've spent a lot with salmon it's one of
those fishes that really goes with a lot
of different cuisines so versatile it's
just really great piece of fish so guys
you're gonna have 30 minutes to prepare
your dishes your time starts now
thank you I'm still kind of
conceptualizing my dish in my head so
what I want to do is a play on a
carpaccio which is thinly sliced salmon
with a nice citrus and avocado thinking
I want to do a good play on me be
introducing some raw fish and then also
kind of doing some cooked fish as well a
lot of people have missed the boat when
it comes to family because they just
make lemon dill salt pepper boring I'm
gonna just make this delicious sweet
glaze on top of it I want to make like
an egg roll and everything will have
vegetables and it can really use these
pre-made sauces before so this should be
interesting some fresh peanut butter is
like mustard they like hot dogs soy
sauce some butter brown sugar
and going no hado sounds like you got
quite a plan over there I don't know how
we got like that they're like three
nodes are going to kids like sweet
things okay here's your sweets they love
crunchy see the care if I see the
shredder and I start shredding my
vegetables I want to incorporate lots of
vegetables so it's healthy but not so
many that it's overpowering I really
want to make sure that my salmon
carpaccio is palatable I pound it out as
thin as I possibly can maybe it might be
a nice introduction into sushi I see
that there's an extra piece of meat
there and I'm like Oh ground beef kids
really like ground beef let me just
throw that in there as well I put a
little Maldon salt on it and kind of try
to build that part of the dish I'm only
nervous you know doing raw fish for kiss
is definitely a little risky so I don't
know how this is gonna go I may have
gone too fancy I don't know I'm so
focused I forget to cut the salmon up
because I was just so excited to like
get it in the oven while that's cooking
then I start making my noodles push all
kind of things cooking over there and I
don't have anything on this dough yet
chef's you have 15 minutes left it's a
man it's hard babe a minute
now I'm gonna pull the salmon out of the
marinade and skewer them every kid I
know they all love anything you can eat
off of a stick Renu's oh she's a really
focus delicious meal from a mama that
loved them you know mama loves a baby as
I wait for my salmon to come out I then
start preparing my rice paper for the
rolling I think she's making something a
little bit spicy guys yeah I like spicy
I'm just started getting into spicy food
so don't worry roll yeah yeah like a rat
maybe it looks really good hey Elijah
let's go check in on chef Dakota okay
let's go right I'll check on chef to
Hera hey chef Dakota how's it going good
this is good so what do you make them
kind of do it a play on a cooked Anna
Ross and what is the sauce er dipping
the fish oh this is a like a coconut
peanut sauce in the groove play on a
second yeah thank you should fingers
yeah
they say Hara how's it going good good
good just trying to get the last little
bits in here so you've been trying a
couple different ways of making your
dish I've just banded the whole blow
okay but I think it's gonna be fried
Twitter that matter will be delicious
this doesn't exactly look like salmon to
me we're definitely salmon in it kids
who don't mix still eat fish all the
time they're always be thrown off by me
let's just say I've got many cultures
going on at the same time really waiting
for this thank you I'm normally not this
messy at home I got a little sous chefs
I gave birth to yeah that's my face haha
five minutes left chefs Oh a little bit
of this I realized that it's time for me
to take my salmon out
it looks delicious it's the right type
of flaky but realizing that I forgot to
cut it up I now have to like cut the
salmon right in the middle so it looks
like a big old hunk of meat on top of
the plate but I know it's gonna be
delicious so that won't even matter and
now I take my peanut coconut milk and I
dress that salmon and it looks really
beautiful colors are bright I'm very
happy I'm completely confident I put
some of the salmon on top of that plate
and with literally like five seconds
left I throw my chives on top of the
plate yeah a lot y0 time is up
Tahereh please explain your dish
I have made a brown sugar honey salmon
on top of rice noodles it's got some
green onions it's got a little bit of
ground beef like a beef vegetable carrot
empanada salmon roll bake thing this
looks good looks beautiful I love how
you place the fish on top of the pasta
the fish glaze looks really good
first when I salton like whoa reminds me
of going to the seafood restaurant with
my family my birthday I love how you put
the ground beef with the vegetables
inside of it it brought out so many more
flavors and salmon than I thought there
were you really did surprise me the beef
textures a little bit rough on my like
my gums Elijah did you get a bone there
yeah oh here it's like a really unique
combination of things I don't think it
reminds me of like any specific one
cuisine but I really like it thank you
to Hera for your dish chef Dakota can
you please describe your dish so what I
did for you is a play on two different
kinds of salmon the first is a carpaccio
style and I glazed it with some soy
sesame vinaigrette a little fresh blood
orange avocado sesame seeds and Thai
basil and then I also did a salmon satay
pop in a classic coconut peanut sauce
top of a little sauted shiitake and
some snap peas I love your presentation
but I would have liked the soy sauce to
be even on both sides because I'm very
particular stuck be be brave
Wow yeah I can really taste the blood
orange in it the avocado on top that
really added a nice touch to it this
dish makes me like want to run to the
beach right now just make a sand angel I
love it I definitely love the peanut
coconut sauce I think the soy sauce with
the sesame seeds is a little too sour
for me for now I think I'm gonna stick
with cookie salmon it is really just
like butter I mean I this is how I love
to eat fish Thank You chef Dakota for
your dish absolutely this is gonna be a
hard deliberation I was just kind of
like spaghetti meat work and it did its
it I got it was gorgeous thank you what
do you guys think about Tijeras dish I
would prefer the beef to be a little bit
less chalky I didn't like the ground
beef in the pasta well the only person
that got a bone-in
you are the only person that I didn't
get a bone but honestly wanted to steal
every secret you had and while I like
you we should have wind together someday
you're going down as much as I think
you're fabulous I'd be horribly
embarrassed if I lost to you so I can't
go back to my kitchen and tell all my
cooks yeah sorry guys you know so yeah I
mean I want to win this chef Dakota I've
had salmon a lot of ways I've never had
it as a popsicle yeah that was really
cool it's like what a contrast yeah it
went back to like when we were like
three or four layer just like eat
popsicles out on the porch
I still eat popsicles out of my porch I
just hear us I'm just like it reminds me
when I was little this was a really hard
decision but I think we all know who won
let's call the contestants back out chef
Dakota Tahereh welcome back thank you
both for coming in today you both cooked
some amazing dishes Tahereh your brown
sugar honey
salmon glaze was really amazing chef
Dakota your salmon popsicle sit out the
winner mom versus chef is chef Dakota I
can't believe I lost
there's just no like honestly you know
this is what this girl does so I didn't
want to hurt her too bad so I probably
held back just a little bit quite the
honor really is honestly I know kids
palates can be very finicky cooking for
my niece and nephews so this is good I'm
really excited to tell my sister and you
something this is awesome thank you both
for coming in and cooking some amazing
food for us this has been mom versus
chef you guys want for dessert fish
popsicle how about we just stick with
like chocolate cake isn't
oh yes